# data-visualization-final-project

## Google Colab Links
### Data Collection
This google collab contains code of collecting data from OpenDota API.
Running the code might require a secret key from OpenDota API, and may take 1 or 2 hours to collect the data and to create the ml models.
https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1ygKu94YXY084lCqtlRXA40Sg1l-BDlff?usp=sharing

### Data Exploration
This google colab does data exploration and testing the model. It also converts the ml model into a probability matrix for the 16 teams to compete to make it easier to run the monte carlo simulation.
Running the monte carlo simulation for many runs is compute intensive, so a probability matrix is used instead of an ml model, but the probability matrix was generated by the ml model.
https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1AvXea2UkaLC7rqjC9NOXE-B1N5Te2XnJ?usp=sharing

### Creating Radar Charts
The ML model used features of the teams hero pool to predict victory. This means depending on the shape of the hero pool, one team might have a higher chance of winning than another team. I used google colab to create radar charts to show the shape of the hero pool for each team,
https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1PrzZZ6mP1teWTwdMxM4BFYtEHJIgUl8l 

## Web Application
### Vue js
https://data-visualization-final-project-production-8917.up.railway.app/ 
This Vue js app shows off the probability matrix of one team beating another team as a heatmap. There are a few mouse over effects to see more details.

Another thing that the Vue js app shows is a monte carlo simulation with the user able to pick and choose parameters. Users can decide how the matching of teams work and also can decide on the seeding for teams to see the outcomes. The monte carlo simulation then runs many simulations according to the official tournament structure set up by valve. The simulation can also run one tournament so that users can see how a singular tournmanet run might look like.

Lastly users can see the team statistics, and view each team as a single card with all the stats associated with that team. Users can easily do a fuzzy search and do filters to find the team that they want to view.

All of these features are dynamic, and can run in the background with global states. When running a monte carlo simulation, while waiting, the user can visit the heatmap or the team filter and then switch back to the monte carlo simulation without losing state. By having the web app store state, the user has a much easier experience using the app, and can switch to different parts of the app without worrying about losing their simulation runs.